# Kubernetes Monitoring and Init Containers

## Task 1

### Overview of kube-prometheus-stack

The Kube Prometheus Stack, often used for monitoring Kubernetes clusters, consists of several key components. These components work together to provide a comprehensive monitoring solution. Here's a brief overview of each:

1. Prometheus: the core component, Prometheus is an open-source monitoring system with a dimensional data model, flexible query language, efficient time series database, and modern alerting approach.

2. Grafana: Grafana is a popular open-source analytics and interactive visualization web application. It provides charts, graphs, and alerts when connected to supported data sources, including Prometheus.

3. Alertmanager: this component of Prometheus handles alerts sent by client applications such as the Prometheus server. It takes care of deduplicating, grouping, and routing them to the correct receiver integrations such as email, PagerDuty, or OpsGenie.

4. Kube State Metrics: an essential service which provides cluster state metrics gleaned from the Kubernetes API server.

5. Prometheus Operator: simplifies the deployment and configuration of Prometheus, Alertmanager, and related monitoring components.

### Deploying

```bash
helm install mon prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack
NAME: mon
LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Nov 16 07:02:02 2023
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
NOTES:
kube-prometheus-stack has been installed. Check its status by running:
  kubectl --namespace default get pods -l "release=mon"

Visit https://github.com/prometheus-operator/kube-prometheus for instructions on how to create & configure Alertmanager and Prometheus instances using the Operator.
```

```bash

```
